Hello again, in this video we're
going to be accurately calculating
our guess when we push up, up, up, up,
you'll see that it's heading up and
down, down, down,
it heads back down again.
We'll fix a bug to do with the guesses
not going all the way up to the 1,000.
And we'll tidy up the way that we're
greeting our player, and the text that we
have in relation to the guest, we make
sure that the text all makes sense.
So, let's get cracking.
I'm starting to see a few more questions
in our Q & A sections about how codes and
people are missing their
braces not knowing exactly
where to put the semi colons and
looking for a point of comparison.
So I'll remind you again about our
GitHub repo that we have available.
If you are in any of our lectures, and let
me just go grab the previous lecture that
we just had, up on the top left,
you'll see the three little lines up here.
You click on that,
it gives every single one of our lectures.
You'll see something called
lecture project changes.
If you click on that,
it will take you to our GitHub repository.
This is all free.
You don't need to log in.
It's all public and it's where we
put our code and our code changes.
So the lecture that we're going through,
Scope And Context Of Variables,
you can see there's a Scope And
Context Of Variables and
then all of the changes that we've
made in our various documents.
So the document here, we're looking at
the first one, is our numberwizard.cs,
the script we're working in.
Anything that's in red has been changed or
deleted.
Anything that is in green has been added.
So you can see,
that's exactly what rick or
bin has updated in that particular video.
They added max = guess.
I thought it was something else.
So you can see exactly what we added or
removed.
And then also you can see
the changes we might have,
readme file down here in each video,
also has a readme that we put against it.
You can navigate around a little bit more
if you come back up to the top click on
browse files.
This is where you see our project
state right at the moment,
right as it is for
this particular lecture.
So every lecture, it takes a snap
shot of the state of our project.
If we click on number wizard console,
that's the name of our project.
Assets, that's the directory
that we're working in.
Just jump back over to Unity for a second,
so we're now at assets folder here.
And we're working a number of wizard dots,
so
if you click on that then you'll
see the script in its entirety
as it is right at that point in
time as we finish the lecture.
So if you get completely lost like nothing
is working at all here, you could totally
go and copy out entire script here and
then paste that into your script and
you would have exactly what we
had if you wanted to do that.
Or you can describe
a certain part of it and
compare how say our start
method to your stop method.
So that's how you can catch up if
there is any issues or problems or
you wanna know exactly what we're working
on, we give you absolutely everything or
as much everything as we can get
away with through our GitHub reaper.
Now for our mission in this video
we're going to be calculating
the guess by using our
min plus max divided
by two that we talked about
a bunch in the previous video.
So I've now done an update method, update.
It's probably an update, not update.
Update method down here.
And we say that min = guess
cuz we establish the fact that
when a player makes a guess,
if they've pushed up, they're saying.
Sorry, when the player makes a guess,
but when we've made a guess and
the player is saying whether it's
correct or not, if the player pushes
up it says that, our guess was too low so
that now becomes our minimum.
If we've guessed it 500 and the place
was wow, it was higher than that,
now our minimum is 500 as per our guess.
We can add another line after
this where we say guess =
(max + min) / 2;.
So, what we're saying here is that our
guess is the maximum plus the minimum
divided by 2.
We've talked about that a bunch,
that's the mid point we're intersecting
in-between our potential guesses.
So what's going on here?
We're saying that minimum equals guess but
guess equals something else,
can we do that?
Yes, we can because within
our if statement here,
our lines, our statements are going
to be executed one at a time and
unity is gonna look at it and
say, okay, I'll do that.
Then I'll do this, then I'll do this,
then I'll do this,
going through this if statement.
So min is going to store.
Remember, it's variable, it's like a box.
It's going to store what we tell it,
which is guess.
We know the value for
guess is 500 and then, we say, okay.
Now there's a new guess.
There's a new value we
want to give to guess.
So whatever is on the right is
going to be assigned to guess.
And on the right is the max + min.
The maximum is whatever it was currently.
Currently it's 1000 plus minimum.
We've just defined that minimum
here is 500 divided by 2.
So our next guess would be 750.
Okay, so that's our logic there for
updating what the guess is.
We can do exactly the same down in our
down arrow between max = guess and
debug.log.
We're going to say guess
= (max + min) / 2,
we could have just copied and
pasted it but
it's good to practice that typing there.
So we've got the same situation
were we're recalculating the guess.
In this case we're redefining what min is,
in this case we're redefining what
max is based on what was pressed.
Let's save that and back into unity and
see what we get from doing that.
Lets click on play and
we can see if we push up,
it says 750, 875, 937, 968.
If we push down, 976, 972, 970, 969, 968,
and it's settled on 968 as the guess.
Very cool.
Get out of player and click play again
which will clear this on it's load and
we'll just see the edge cases
will push up, up, up, up.
And it might [LAUGH] be going into up,
up, up, up, up and to 999, we'll get to
that in a moment, that's our first bug,
very exciting for our first bug.
And if we stop and then push play again.
Remember to click in the game window if
you've clicked out of it pushing down go
down down down down down
all the way down to one.
Ok, so it's working on the down, it's not
working on the up, so it's working in
general which is fantastic, we do have
a bug let's go in and fix that bug.
So the problem is that it's not
making all the way up to 1,000 so
all we need to do down here in our start
method, max = max + 1, to a space there.
And this is another cool thing that we
can assign a variable as itself plus 1.
So at this current point in time,
max is 1000,
so saying you are going to be 1000 plus 1,
so your new assignment is 1001.
Okay, so we've said max = max
+ 1 in our start method here.
Save this, back over into unity,
we'll see how well this worked.
Click on play, if we can push this up, up,
up all the way and make it up to 1,000.
[SOUND] There we go,
we've made it up to 1,000.
There's one thing that I want
you to do as a challenge.
It's not a code challenge
in this particular video,
it is a tidy up your text challenge.
So update your text to have it make sense.
Be creative, let me just remind
you what I'm talking about here.
So instead of saying up arrow was pressed
we wanna say, is your guess higher or
lower than such and such a thing.
Also in here we wanna say,
is it lower than and
pass in this variable here
as we did with min and max.
Also what I'm really looking for
is you to put a little bit more flavor
into the way that you,
as a player what to do and to greet them.
And to make sure that everything makes
sense and as a final step on our community
share, I would like you to
share your local greeting.
What do I mean by that?
Well, I'm gonna come up here right at the
very start for, Welcome to number wizard,
yo, that's not really how I speak
being Australians, I'm gonna say,
G'day mate, welcome to numba,
[LAUGH] that's kinda how we say it,
wiz-ud, that how we say it as well,
that's pretty good.
G'day mate, welcome to numba wiz-ud.
So if you're from France, maybe you'll put
a bit of a bonjour in there, if you're
from England, you'll say something
particularly charming and witty, no doubt.
And, to just do something with
a little bit of flavor and
a little bit of character.
And then, as I showed you before when
we're looking at the top left up
here about any of our videos,
any of the lectures,
you'll see this lecture's discussions.
If you click on that, that will take you
to the link where people are discussing
about this particular lecture.
So it will take you to the link for the
lecture we're currently on at the moment.
Throw in there what do you like to say.
Show us your greeting.
Be it a little bit witty or
not is up to you.
And I look forward to ring that and
seeing how you would say hello and
good day in your local greeting.
So this is your challenge
a couple of steps to,
I've given you a lot to work through.
Give it your best shot and
I'll see you back in here in a moment and
I'll show you what I've done.
G'day and welcome back.
I'm gonna start by,
I've already put in my good day up here,
this all looks not too bad.
I'm going to change this here higher or
lower than.
This will be our first time
of saying to the player,
then leave a space add a plus there.
Then what are we doing?
We're doing guess, okay,
higher or lower than guess.
We initialize guess at 500, so
this first time it should say 500.
Just gonna save that.
Okay, so
there are our initial instructions.
Then when we are pushing up,
we want to say,
I don't think we need to have this debug
anymore of Up Arrow was pressed, but
I'm gonna cut that, put it down below my
guess calculations, paste it in here.
And say again,
let see ("Is it higher or
lower than..." + guess).
Why did I not put it above?
Well, so we put out text here at the top
of our if statement then it will be
using whatever value of guess it currently
has before we do this calculation.
We wanted to do this calculation and
then say, is it higher or
lower than this thing here.
So it's important to know that all
that matters in this context, so
I've got min=guess and then plus guess.
I don't this second debug now cuz
we are saying guest just here,
tidy that up a little bit.
I will copy this cuz it's gonna be
exactly the same copy that put it down,
replace my Debug.log down here, so
I just pasted that over the top.
We don't need this press the arrow or
you push the up arrow key,
I have min = guess, guess equals this and
then debug, is this correct?
Max, guess, and then the same again.
Excellent so and
down here I'll put in the text now.
We haven't got to the point
where this is working nice and
cleanly but I'll say you know,
it's about me, isn't it?
I am a genius.
If you get it correct, then I'm a genius.
So our game is coming
together really well.
In this video we have added
a tighter calculation for
guess, we've talked a little bit about the
execution order of statements within our
code block here, and we have spent some
time just making our text a little
bit nicer making our game
a little bit more structured.
In the next video we will
be talking about methods or
functions and making out game have a game
loop on it so that we can replay it.
Right, we will work on this video and
I will see you in the next one.